README.md, before:


# PhasePApy 


			
## About

The PhasePApy is a Pure Python program package developed by Chen Chen (c.chen@ou.edu; 
c.chen8684@gmail.com) under the guidance of Austin Holland.

Version 1.0: 2014	--	FBpicker; 1D Associator
Version 1.1: 2016	--	FBpicker, AICDpicker, KTpicker; 1D and 3D Associator

The PhasePApy is a Seismic Phase Picker and Associator program package, which is 
designed to identify and associate picks to the seismic events or microseismic events. 
This work has currently been submitted for peer review. Please reference the paper in 
review if you are using this code. Once the paper is published we will include the 
full reference.

The first version 1.0 has been used by Oklahoma Geological Survey (OGS) for near real
time earthquake monitoring since 2014. Here, we only provide the version 1.1 to public,
because we think this one is more user-friendly and easy to manipulate. You might need 
to modify the code a bit for your requirements. Also, we still think the code has some 
space for further clean-up and improvement, so please feel free to modify and update it. 

If you have certain ideas to improve this package, please let us know.
If you are going to use this package for any commercial purpose, please let us know.

## Reference 

Chen,C., and A. A. Holland, (201X). PhasePApy: A Robust Pure Python Package for Automatic 
Identification of Seismic Phases, XXX XXX XXX, XX(XX), XXX-XXX.
			
## Components 

The PhasePApy package composes of two sub-packages: PhasePicker and Associator. These 
two sub-packages can work jointly or separately, depending on users’ requirements. 

### PhasePicker
The PhasePicker contains three pickers: FBpicker, AICDpicker, and KTpicker

### Associator
The Associator includes the 1D and 3D Associator modules which uses phase arrival look up
tables to associate earthquakes. The associator was tested for local to regional earthquake
 P- and S-phases, but the algorithm can be accommodated for any distance and possibly phase.

## Examples 

In the test directory, there are two examples to show how to tune the parameters and present 
the performance with all the processing units. The first example is the 6-minute data and the
second one is a one-day dataset. The README.md file is included in each example. 


## Required Libraries

The PhasePApy package relies on open libraries: 
+ Obspy 
+ Numpy
+ Scipy 
+ MatPlotLib (Optional) if you are going to plot results with plotting scripts in this 
package, you need matplotlib as well. Otherwise, the users can visualize it based on their own methods.

Commit message:

Added public domain license wording

README.md, after:


# PhasePApy 

## Reference 

Chen,C., and A. A. Holland, (201X). PhasePApy: A Robust Pure Python Package for Automatic 
Identification of Seismic Phases, XXX XXX XXX, XX(XX), XXX-XXX.

			
## About

The PhasePApy is a Pure Python program package developed by Chen Chen (c.chen@ou.edu; 
c.chen8684@gmail.com) under the guidance of Austin Holland.

Version 1.0: 2014	--	FBpicker; 1D Associator
Version 1.1: 2016	--	FBpicker, AICDpicker, KTpicker; 1D and 3D Associator

The PhasePApy is a Seismic Phase Picker and Associator program package, which is 
designed to identify and associate picks to the seismic events or microseismic events. 
This work has currently been submitted for peer review. Please reference the paper in 
review if you are using this code. Once the paper is published we will include the 
full reference.

The first version 1.0 has been used by Oklahoma Geological Survey (OGS) for near real
time earthquake monitoring since 2014. Here, we only provide the version 1.1 to public,
because we think this one is more user-friendly and easy to manipulate. You might need 
to modify the code a bit for your requirements. Also, we still think the code has some 
space for further clean-up and improvement, so please feel free to modify and update it. 

If you have certain ideas to improve this package, please let us know.
If you are going to use this package for any commercial purpose, please let us know.
			

## Components 

The PhasePApy package composes of two sub-packages: PhasePicker and Associator. These 
two sub-packages can work jointly or separately, depending on users’ requirements. 

### PhasePicker
The PhasePicker contains three pickers: FBpicker, AICDpicker, and KTpicker

### Associator
The Associator includes the 1D and 3D Associator modules which uses phase arrival look up
tables to associate earthquakes. The associator was tested for local to regional earthquake
 P- and S-phases, but the algorithm can be accommodated for any distance and possibly phase.

## License
PhasePApy is public domain and is provided as is with no warranty expressed or implied.  
The software was developed at the Oklahoma Geological Survey.

## Examples 
There are examples in the test directory if one has the required libraries the examples
should run directly out of a git clone of PhasePApy.  



## Required Libraries
Currently PhasePApy does not have a Python installer for module installation the files 
need to be placed in a proper location and the PYTHON_PATH or sys.path should point to where
the library exists.

The PhasePApy package relies on open libraries: 
+ Obspy 
+ Numpy
+ Scipy 
+ MatPlotLib (Optional) if you are going to plot results with plotting scripts in this 
package, you need matplotlib as well. Otherwise, the users can visualize it based on their own methods.
